cinema synopses spoiler alert the
Asgardian Loki encounters the other the
leader of an extraterrestrial race known
as the Chitauri I was a king betrayed in
exchange for retrieving the tesseract
you don't have the tesseract yet a
powerful energy source of unknown
potential the other promises Loki an
army with which he can subjugate earth
Nick Fury director of the Espionage
agency shield and his lieutenant agent
Maria hill arrive at a remote research
facility during an evacuation where
physicist dr. Erik Selvig is leading a
research team experimenting on the
tesseract tesseract is misbehaving agent
Phil Coulson explains that the object
has begun radiating an unusual form of
energy dr. Salvin read an energy surge
from the tesseract
the tesseract suddenly activates and
opens a wormhole is a doorway to the
other end of space right allowing Loki
to reach earth
Loki takes the tesseract and uses his
scepter to enslave Cell wig and a couple
of other agents including Clint Barton
[Music]
to aid him in his getaway in response to
the attack fury reactivates the Avengers
initiative agent natasha romanoff
is sent to Calcutta to recruit dr. Bruce
Banner to trace the tesseract through
its gamma radiation emissions there's no
radiation like you do
Coulson visits Tony Stark to have him
review sell wigs research and fury
approaches Steve Rodgers with an
assignment to retrieve the tesseract
Hydra secret weapon I should have left
it in the ocean in Stuttgart Barton
steals iridium needed to stabilize the
tesseract power while Loki causes a
distraction leading to a brief
confrontation with Rogers stark and
Roman off the ends with Loki surrender
while Loki is being escorted to shield
Thor his adoptive brother arrives and
frees him stark we need a plan of attack
a plan attack hoping to convince him to
abandon his plan and return to Asgard to
give up this poisonous dream come home
after a confrontation with Stark and
Rogers he loves Thor agrees to take Loki
to shield's flying aircraft carrier the
Helicarrier upon arrival Loki is
imprisoned Loki Sabah's God and he's my
brother
he killed 80 people in two days he's
adopted while banner and Stark attempt
to locate the tesseract during this time
stark tries to figure out how banner
controls his anger mellow jazz bongo
drums huge bag leaving The Avengers
become divided both over how to approach
Loki and the revelation that shield
plans to harness the tesseract to
develop weapons as a deterrent against
hostile extraterrestrials phase 2 is
shield uses the cube to make weapons as
the group argues Barton and Loki's other
possessed agents attacked the
Helicarrier disabling one of its engines
in flight and causing banner to
transform into the Hall
[Music]
Starck and Rogers work to restart the
damaged engine
and Thor attempts to stop the Hulk's
rampage romanov fights Barton and knocks
him unconscious breaking Loki's mind
control
Loki escapes after killing Coulson and
ejecting Thor from the airship the
humans think awesome awesome
while the Hulk falls to the ground after
attacking a shield fighter jet Fury uses
Coulson's death to motivate the Avengers
into working as a team to fight the
battles Phil Coulson died still Stark
and Rodgers realized that for Loki
simply defeating them will not be enough
he needs to overpower them publicly to
validate himself as ruler of Earth
mr. beetle she was to be seen doing it
Loki uses the Tesla in conjunction with
a device Selleck built to open a
wormhole above stark tower to the
Chitauri fleet in space launching his
invasion the Chitauri a coming nothing
will change that
Rogers stark Romanov Barton and Thor
rally in defense of New York City the
wormholes location
working on believing dr. banner now it
might be a really good time for you to
get angry that's my secret that I'm
always
banner arrives and transformed into the
hall and together the avengers battle
dakari well evacuating civilians The
Hulk finds Loki and beats him into
submission creature Romanov makes her
way to the wormhole generator where
Selig freed from Loki's mind control
reveals that Loki's scepter can be used
to shut down the generator may be able
to close the portal and I'm looking
right at it
meanwhile Fury's superiors from the
world security council attempt to end
the invasion by launching a nuclear
missile at midtown Manhattan City Stark
intercepts the missile it takes it
through the wormhole the word digit ari
fleet Stark you know that's a one-way
trip
the missile detonates destroying the
Chitauri mothership and disabling their
forces on Starks suit runs out of power
and he falls back through the wormhole
just as Romanoff closes it
a start goes into free fall is not
slowing down but the whole saves him and
crashing into the ground in the
aftermath Thor returns Loki and the
tesseract to Asgard
while fury expresses confidence that the
Avengers will return if and when they
are needed he'll come back in a mid
credit scene the other confers with his
masters about the failed attack on earth
in a post-credits scene there's a
shwarma joint about two blocks from here
the Avenger is eaten silence at a
shwarma restaurant keep watching for
some great easter eggs from The Avengers
movie after Thor takes Loki off the
Quinn jet down on the mountainside two
large Ravens fly by them as they are
talking in Norse mythology
Thor's father and Loki's blood brother
Odin had two Ravens huge in and muninn
who would bring Odin information from
Midgard there are two spoken references
to the early Incredible Hulk comic books
when Captain America is giving orders he
says and Hulk smash a catch phrase
uttered by the Hulk in the comics as
well as The Incredible Hulk after the
Hulk thrashes Loki he says
a reference to another oft-repeated Hulk
phrase puny humans
Captain America finds phase 2 weaponry
in the secured storage area of the
Helicarrier those weapons are emblazoned
with the Hydra logo Tony Stark describes
his group as Earth's Mightiest Heroes
this refers to the famous tag line that
has been featured on the cover of The
Avengers comic books since it's 1963
debut the phrase was also used as the
subtitle for the Avengers
Earth's Mightiest Heroes in 2010 the
animated series which began airing one
year prior to the live-action Avengers
film one of the cards in agent Coulson's
Captain America card set is a
reproduction of Captain America's first
comic book appearance where he punches
out Adolf Hitler English Tony Stark
casually refers to three of the other
main characters Loki Thor and Hawkeye as
either movie characters or movie titles
he calls Loki reindeer games
Thor Point Break and Hawkeye Legolas
Stan Lee the creator of such Marvel
Comics as the x-men spider-man The
Incredible Hulk
the Fantastic Four Iron Man Thor and
many others is the old man being
interviewed at the end of the New York
battle montage who says
kymmie and then returns to a game of
chess with a fellow senior citizen
Loki's staff has a glowing blue gem in
the spearhead that allows him to control
the minds of others this is a reference
to the mind stone one of the six
Infinity stones used by Thanos the mad
Titan shown in the post-credits scene
this line is a kind of inside joke
because the other literally means it is
dangerous to fight the Avengers but
there is also a character named death
who is theosis love-interest whom he
literally has courted
[Music]